---
layout: post
title: Wifi Defense & Exploitation
subtitle: DC509
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [wifi]
comments: true
---

Hello, and welcome to my explanation of what I've learned so far in wifi exploitation and defense. A lot of the post is going
to cover tools that can be found installed by default in Kali, so using that system is going to make your life a lot easier.
Virtual machines are my recommended way of using this, or even booting off a usb3 drive. Also, your going to need a 2.4ghz
wireless adapter capable of injecting packets. If your lucky, your laptop supports this by default.

```
airodump -ng start wlan0
```
Should give you feedback on if your adapter is supported or not.

{: .box-warning}
**Warning:** Make sure your adapter supports wireless injection. If not, your attacks will not work!

<script id="asciicast-239367" src="https://asciinema.org/a/239367.js" async></script>

[Kismet](https://www.kismetwireless.net) is "a wireless network and device detector, sniffer, wardriving tool, and WIDS (wireless intrusion detection) framework." It's awesome at detecting common attacks, but even better at displaying information about wireless devices. In our case we will use it to discover channels a particular AP is connected to, view hidden access points, and view connected devices to those access points. 

{: .box-warning}
**Notice:**
If your having trouble with the software, [Discord](https://discord.gg/5N4ME9a) is my recommended way of getting support. The community is very helpful and welcoming and you'll get an answer much quicker than on a forum.
